// Java Generics

// ArrayList

How does an ArrayList work: 

It keeps adding in values, once it gets full, it creates a new ArrayList , which is double its size and copies the items of the old ArrayList into this new one and then starts adding in values again like previously and this keeps on going.

It takes constant time on an average.

 Generics help us in providing a parametrised type.

 In <> of an ArrayList, we can only add classes and not primitives.
 
 eg. ArrayList<Integer> list = new ArrayList<>(); → This is Correct

  eg. ArrayList<int> list = new ArrayList<>(); → This is Wrong

 If we make an ArrayList of type integer, then we face some issues, 

 1. If we want to write a code for an ArrayList (generic one) that includes all the datatypes, like integer, float, boolean, etc. we have to write a block of code for all of them individually which is a hassle.

 2. Type Safety - In a non generic ArrayList, say of no specific type, we can add any data of any type and the list has no objection to it. 

 ArrayList<Integer> list = new ArrayList<>();  → A Generic ArrayList

 ArrayList list = new ArrayList();  → A Non Generic ArrayList

 We cannot create an instance of generic type, as the bytecode has no idea about it at runtime.

 Generics were introduced to the Java language to provide tighter type checks at compile time and to support generic programming. To implement generics, the Java compiler applies type erasure to:

    • Replace all type parameters in generic types with their bounds or Object if the type parameters are unbounded. The produced bytecode, therefore, contains only ordinary classes, interfaces, and methods.
    • Insert type casts if necessary to preserve type safety.
    • Generate bridge methods to preserve polymorphism in extended generic types.

Type erasure ensures that no new classes are created for parameterized types; consequently, generics incur no runtime overhead.

We cannot instantiate generic types with primitive types.

We cannot create instances of type parameters.

We cannot declare static fields whose types are type parameters.

We cannot use casts or instance of with parametrized types. 

We cannot create arrays of parameterized types.

We cannot create, catch or throw objects of parameterized types. 

We cannot overload a method where the formal parameter types of each overload erase to the same raw type.


// Wildcards

Earlier we created objects that accepted all classes (like Integer, Number, Strings etc), to make it accept only certain classes, we will use wildcards. This will now accept only those particular classes and its subclasses.


// Comparing Objects 

see video


// Lambda Functions

Lambda functions are inline (one line) functions where name of the function is usually not required.

We can also store lambda functions in variables also as we don't need the name of the function here.

eg. arr.forEach((item) -> System.out.println(item * 2));

item has the parameters and sout has the body of the function basically the LHS and RHS of the arrows. 

Consumer type - An operation that accepts a single input argument and returns no result. 

We can also store them in a consumer type:

eg.
Consumer<Integer> fun = (item) -> System.out.println(item * 2);
arr.forEach(fun);


We can also use interfaces:

interface Sum {
    int sum(int a , int b);
}

Sum sum = (a,b) -> a+b;

or 

Sum sum = Integer :: sum

where :: is the method reference (or scope resolution in c++) it means Integer contains sum


// Exception Handling

Error vs Exception

Error: 
• Caused due to lack of resources, eg. Stack Overflow Error
• Error is non recoverable, i.e. program can not handle an error
• We cannot write code to handle an error

Exception:
• Exception is something that prevents the normal flow of the program.
eg, dividing by 0, null pointer exception in Java
• We can handle an exception by writing a code
• Program can handle an exception.

Throwable class in java handles all the errors and exceptions.

                Object class
                    ↓
        -------Throwable---------
        ↓                       ↓
------Exceptions-----           Errors
↓                   ↓
Checked         Unchecked

Checked Exceptions are checked during compile time. eg, file not found exception

Unchecked Exceptions are not detected by compiler during compile time but are detected when the compiler is running during runtime. eg, arithmetic exceptions (divide by 0).

try, catch and finally are the keywords used in exception handling:

try and catch - In the 'try' block, try all these things, and if an exception is found, catch it in the 'catch' block with Exception e.

finally - No matter what happens, this block will always execute, whether an exception is thrown in or not.

We can also write blocks of code which throw exceptions.

eg. 
sttaic int divide (int a, int b) throws ArithmeticException {
    if(b == 0) {
        throw new ArithmeticException("Plz don't divide by 0);
    }

    return a / b;
}

// throw and throws difference:

throw basically means we are throwing in an exception. 

throws is just used to declare exceptions.

These were the 5 keywords in exception handling.

We can also catch multiple exceptions by using multiple catch blocks.

Note - While using multiple catch blocks, make sure that all the exceptions which have higher priorities are put in first or else we'll get in an error. (eg. ArithmeticException has more priority than exception as exception is parent and ArithmeticException is child and it is more specific).


// Creating our own exceptions

We know that every exception extends the main 'Exception' class.

'finally' block is optional and we can only create one 'finally' block.


// Object Cloning

Making an exact copy of an object is called object cloning.

Use the 'clone' method in the object class to make these copies.

In Java's lan package there is an interface called 'Clonable' which must be implemented by the class whose clone we want to create for this purpose.

Shallow Copy - Here we make a new copy for the primitives, but for the objects, it does not create a new copy but it (the reference variable) points to the original.

Problem with Shallow Copy:
If we make a change in the object of the copy, it will also reflect in the object of the original and this is a problem (as both objects in the copy and the original is the same).

primitives - int, char, float etc..

To resolve this problem, use deep copy.

Deep Copy - This creates a copy of everything. The objects of the copy and original are different here. This eliminates the shallow copy problem. 